---
layout: post
title: "LINQ query with a join on an intersection table"
excerpt:
  I was working on my MVC blog engine when I needed to write a query that would return blog entries that contained a tag name. This query is simple to write in SQL. It’s a query from the blog entry, to the blog entry tag, to the blog tab tables.
---

I was working on my MVC blog engine when I needed to write a query that would return blog entries that contained a tag name. This query is simple to write in SQL. It’s a query from the blog entry, to the blog entry tag, to the blog tab tables.

##SQL

    select 
    be.*
    from
    BlogEntry be
    left join BlogEntryCategory bec on bec.BlogEntry_ID = be.BlogEntry_ID
    join BlogCategory bc on bc.BlogCategory_ID = bec.BlogCategory_ID
    and bc.Category like '%' + @Category + '%'

I quickly discovered that this is not as straight forward as I thought it would be in LINQ. I first stared out trying to write joins but the whole “into” grouping was not cool. I then just used my sql proc but I lost my ability to leverage the IQueryable interface which I wanted to that I could chain other clauses against it later (such as the pagination I intend to implement).

I found a [post on stackoverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/267488/linq-to-sql-multiple-left-outer-joins) that talked about multiple left outer joins. Towards the bottom was a post was an answer from “aikr473” with an example of using Lambda expressions in the joins. This is exactly what I needed (I voted the answer up).

##LINQ

    public IQueryable<BlogEntry> FindBlogEntriesByCategory(string category)
    {
        return (from entries in db.BlogEntries
                from catlink in db.BlogEntryCategories.Where(e => e.BlogEntry_ID == entries.BlogEntry_ID).DefaultIfEmpty()
                from Category in db.BlogCategories.Where(c => c.BlogCategory_ID == catlink.BlogCategory_ID && c.Category.Contains(category))
                orderby entries.Published descending
                select entries);
    }

This allows me to set up the base query the way I want it, which is a result set sorted by the most recent posts. It also allows me to chain on to this statement later so that I can do something like a take or skip in a paging scenario.

To give you an idea of how I’ll use this:

##Controller

    //
    // GET: /Blog/Listing/3
    public ActionResult Listing(string id, int? page)
    {
        var entries = repository.FindBlogEntriesByCategory(id);
        var paginatedEntries = new PaginatedList<BlogEntry>(entries, page ?? 0, pageSize);
        return View("Index", paginatedEntries);
    }
    PaginatedList class (example taken from NerdDinner)

    public class PaginatedList<T> : List<T>
    {
        public int PageIndex { get; set; }
        public int PageSize { get; set; }
        public int TotalCount { get; set; }
        public int TotalPages { get; set; }
     
        public PaginatedList(IQueryable<T> source, int pageIndex, int pageSize)
        {
            PageIndex = pageIndex;
            PageSize = pageSize;
            TotalCount = source.Count();
            TotalPages = (int)Math.Ceiling(TotalCount / (double)PageSize);
     
            this.AddRange(source.Skip(pageIndex * pageSize).Take(pageSize));
        }
     
        public bool HasPreviousPage
        {
            get
            {
                return (PageIndex > 0);
            }
        }
     
        public bool HasNextPage
        {
            get
            {
                return (PageIndex + 1 < TotalPages);
            }
        }
    }
    
This gives me a lot of flexibility on how I can pull the data out of sql repository, which may change based on the context of the area in my site that a person is visiting.